I don't know, I mean I just marvel at human nature and the survival instinct, you know, that despite
everything that people go through they still have something within them that needs them to move
forward, to adapt and to continue and to move on. So you know that in itself is quite impressive.
Well I think there's a couple of things. I mean we were lucky that Jamaat Khana was very important
and we had somebody from our Jamaat Khana that would come and pick us up on a Friday. And I
think having that link to our community, just being able to pray, I think in all of my life,
in all of the the biggest challenges that I've had in my life, the opportunity to silence your
mind and pray with a group of people with whom you have a sense of belonging,
I think has been a very powerful thing for me in terms of just helping me rationalize,
re-energize and just think differently about certain things. I was still studying, I was still
only 16 but this was like the big wide world that I hadn't entered, you know, being so restricted.
But I was making money and I was able to, when I turned 17, pay for my own driving lessons and I
was able to buy my own car and that really changed the face of our lives, you know,
certainly for my parents because then I was able to take them very easily to community events,
community functions, to weddings, to other things. So now they had a much stronger sense of belonging
than they had before. So that was great. There was nobody to talk to. We just got on with it.
We had to. I think you develop a certain amount of resilience, you know, when you've had the kind
of experience that our family has, you have to have a certain type of experience. You know,
we didn't have people to talk to, we didn't have, you know, anybody that would put their
arms around us and say it's going to be all right. No, we just had to deal with it. That's what it was.